# pandas-challenge
This challenge creates and manipulates Pandas DataFrames to analyse school and standardised test data.

Summary of Analysis:
School performance metrics were categorized based on school size and school type. They also examine key indicators such as average maths and reading scores, and the percentage of students who passed these subjects. The analyst seprated the school size into three groups: Small (lower than 1000 students), Medium (1000-2000 students) and Large (2000-5000 students), while school type is either Government or Private. Hence, we were able to observe performance trends across different school sizes and compared with two school types.

Two Conclusions:
On the one hand, students's academic performance decreases as the school size increases. The data shows that smaller-sized schools tend to perform better academically than larger schools. Students in small-sized schools have the highest average scores in both maths and reading. At the same time, there is the highest percentages of students passing these subjects in small-sized schools. Importantly, small schools have an average maths score of 72.34 and an average reading score of 71.64, wiht 90.81% of students and 87.56% passing reading. This results in the highest overall passing rate of 79.07%. However, large-sized schools have the lowest average scores, which are 69.75 in maths and 69.58 in reading, and its lowest passing percentages were 84.25% in maths and 83.30% in reading. And this results in an overall passing rate of 70.29%. At last, medium-sized schools, which is defined as capacity of 1000-2000 students, fall in between small and large schools in terms of performance metrics. 

On the other hand, independent schools have higher average scores in both maths and reading compared to government schools. Significantly, the average maths score for independent schools is 71.37, while for government schools, it is 69.83. Similarly, the average reading score for independent schools is 70.72, compared to 69.68 for government schools.
Regarding to the passing rate, we can see there is 89.20% of students passing maths and 86.25% passing reading in independent schools, while 84.46% of students passing maths and 83.59% passing reading for government schools.
